README.md, before:

# Thyroid Tumor Exposomics Analysis
This repository contains code and data used for the analysis presented in the submitted manuscript 'Environmental Chemical Burden in Differentiated Thyroid Cancer' by Preston et al. 2025.

To clone this repository to your local machine:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/jdpreston30/thyroid-exposomics-2025
cd thyroid-exposomics-2025
```

Make sure you have [Git](https://git-scm.com/) installed. After cloning, you can open `source_code.R` in RStudio or your preferred IDE to begin the analysis.


## Requirements
- R version ≥ 4.3.1
- Packages: broom, dplyr, forcats, ggplot2, multcompView, purrr, readxl, stringr, tibble, tidyr, writexl


## Files
All elements of the repository are listed below, along with a description and guide of each:
- `source_code.R`: This file is the main analysis script for the project. All data required to run the code, excluding data required for the blocks under “#+ Demographics (Table 1)”, can be imported from the "Data and Metadata Files" folder or loaded into the global environment from the compiled R serialized object (all_objects.rds). The following packages are required for the source code: broom, dplyr, forcats, ggplot2, multcompView, purrr, readxl, stringr, tibble, tidyr, writexl. These can all be installed and loaded under the header “#* Dependencies.” A version of R ≥ 4.3.1 is recommended for running all analyses in the source code.

- `all_objects.rds`: This is the R serialized object containing all objects and the full dataset, excluding demographic data.
  
- `Outputs`: This folder contains all output data files generated by running the source code.

- `Figures.Prism`: This is a GraphPad Prism file used to create all figures in the manuscript.
  
- `Data and Metadata Files`: This folder contains all primary data and metadata files. These data can be directly imported into the analysis script. A description of each file is as follows:
  - `primary_data.xlsx`: This file contains the primary data for this project. A description of each tab in the file is as follows:
    - `lib.subject.summary`: Feature table for all annotated features.
    - `tumors_sequence`: Sequence file and associated sample metadata.
    - `lib.subject.qusummary`: Quantitative feature table for tumors.
    - `lib.subject.qsummary.cadaver`: Quantitative feature table for cadaver control thyroids.
    - `library`: Information on the full library of standards used.
    - `tissue_weights`: Weights of each tissue sample.
  - `chemical_metadata.xlsx`: Metadata for all detected chemicals.
    - `feature_metadata`: Detailed metadata for all unique identifications.
    - `Endogenous Excluded Features`: Features excluded from analysis due to being primarily endogenous.

Commit message:

Added raw supplementary table files, created ST1 library, updated metadata

README.md, after:

# Thyroid Tumor Exposomics Analysis
This repository contains code and data used for the analysis presented in the submitted manuscript 'Environmental Chemical Burden in Differentiated Thyroid Cancer' by Preston et al. 2025.

To clone this repository to your local machine:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/jdpreston30/thyroid-exposomics-2025
cd thyroid-exposomics-2025
```

Make sure you have [Git](https://git-scm.com/) installed. After cloning, you can open `source_code.R` in RStudio or your preferred IDE to begin the analysis.


## Requirements
- R version ≥ 4.3.1
- Packages: broom, dplyr, forcats, ggplot2, multcompView, purrr, readxl, stringr, tibble, tidyr, webchem, writexl


## Files
All elements of the repository are listed below, along with a description and guide of each:
- `source_code.R`: This file is the main analysis script for the project. All data required to run the code, excluding data required for the blocks under “#+ Demographics (Table 1)”, can be imported from the "Data and Metadata Files" folder or loaded into the global environment from the compiled R serialized object (all_objects.rds). The following packages are required for the source code: broom, dplyr, forcats, ggplot2, multcompView, purrr, readxl, stringr, tibble, tidyr, writexl. These can all be installed and loaded under the header “#* Dependencies.” A version of R ≥ 4.3.1 is recommended for running all analyses in the source code.

- `all_objects.rds`: This is the R serialized object containing all objects and the full dataset, excluding demographic data.
  
- `Outputs`: This folder contains all output data files generated by running the source code.

- `Figures.Prism`: This is a GraphPad Prism file used to create all figures in the manuscript.
  
- `Data and Metadata Files`: This folder contains all primary data and metadata files. These data can be directly imported into the analysis script. A description of each file is as follows:
  - `primary_data.xlsx`: This file contains the primary data for this project. A description of each tab in the file is as follows:
    - `lib.subject.summary`: Feature table for all annotated features.
    - `tumors_sequence`: Sequence file and associated sample metadata.
    - `lib.subject.qusummary`: Quantitative feature table for tumors.
    - `lib.subject.qsummary.cadaver`: Quantitative feature table for cadaver control thyroids.
    - `library`: Information on the full library of standards used.
    - `tissue_weights`: Weights of each tissue sample.
  - `chemical_metadata.xlsx`: Metadata for all detected chemicals.
    - `feature_metadata`: Detailed metadata for all unique identifications.
    - `Endogenous Excluded Features`: Features excluded from analysis due to being primarily endogenous.
  - `supplementary_tables_raw.xlsx`: Raw forms of the tables used in the supplementary material.
    - `ST1_raw`: Raw form of Supplementary Table 1.
    - `ST2_raw`: Raw form of Supplementary Table 2.
    - `ST3_raw`: Raw form of Supplementary Table 3.
    - `ST4_raw`: Raw form of Supplementary Table 4.
    - `Abbreviations`: Abbreviation legend for the Supplementary Tables.
